
**************************************************************************
PRIVET: PRIVacy metric based on Extreme value Theory
**************************************************************************

**Abstract:** Deep generative models are often trained on sensitive data, such as genetic sequences, health data, or more broadly, any copyrighted, licensed or protected content. This raises critical concerns around privacy-preserving synthetic data, and more specifically around privacy leakage, an issue closely tied to overfitting. Existing methods almost exclusively rely on global criteria to estimate the risk of privacy failure associated to a model, offering only quantitative non interpretable insights. The absence of rigorous evaluation methods for data privacy at the sample-level may hinder the practical deployment of synthetic data in real-world applications. Using extreme value statistics on nearest-neighbor distances, we propose PRIVET, a generic sample-based, modality-agnostic algorithm that assigns an individual privacy leak score to each synthetic sample. We empirically demonstrate that PRIVET reliably detects instances of memorization and overfitting across diverse data modalities, including settings with very high dimensionality and limited sample sizes such as genetic data. We compare our method to existing approaches under controlled settings and show its advantage in providing both dataset level and sample level assessments through qualitative and quantitative outputs. Additionally, our analysis reveals limitations in existing computer vision embeddings to yield perceptually meaningful distances when identifying near-duplicate samples.